Reserve Bank of India
SELECT LANGUAGE
ASSAMESE
BENGALI
ENGLISH
GUJARATI
HINDI
KANNADA
MALAYALAM
MARATHI
ODIA
PUNJABI
TAMIL
TELUGU
URDU
SITE MAP
CONTACT US
DISCLAIMER
About Us
Useful Information
FAQs
Financial Education
Complaints
Important Websites
Banker and Debt Manager to Government
Commercial Banking
Co-operative Banking
Non-banking
Financial Inclusion and Development
Financial Market
Foreign Exchange Management
Consumer Education and Protection
Issuer of Currency
Payment and Settlement System
FinTech
Research
Others
Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation
Home
>>
FAQs
- Display
Note :
To obtain an aligned printout please download the
(285.00
kb
) version to your machine and then use respective software to print the story.
Date:
12/02/2024
RBI imposes monetary penalty on The Anjangaon Surji Nagari Sahakari Bank Limited, Anjangaon Surji, Maharashtra
The Reserve Bank of India (RBl) has imposed, by  an order dated February 08, 2024, a monetary  penalty of ₹0.50 lakh (Rupees Fifty  thousand only) on The Anjangaon Surji  Nagari Sahakari Bank Limited, Anjangaon Surji, Maharashtra  (the bank) for contravention of Directives and specific directions issued  by RBI under sections 35(A)(1) and 36(1) read with section 56 of the Banking  Regulation Act, 1949 (BR Act), respectively.  This penalty has been imposed in exercise of powers conferred on RBI under the  provisions of Section 47A(1)(c) read with Sections 46(4)(i) and 56 of BR Act.
This action is based on deficiencies in  regulatory compliance and is not intended to pronounce upon the validity of any  transaction or agreement entered into by the bank with its customers.
Background
The statutory inspection of the bank conducted  by RBI with reference to its financial position as on March 31, 2022, and examination  of the Risk Assessment Report and all correspondence related thereto revealed, inter  alia, that the bank had (i) allowed withdrawal by depositors  more than the limit prescribed under Directives issued by RBI under section  35A(1) read with section 56 of the Act, and (ii) disbursed fresh loans in  violation of specific directions issued under Supervisory Action Framework  (SAF). Consequently, a notice was issued to the bank advising it to show cause  as to why penalty should not be imposed on it for failure to comply with the  said directions, as stated therein.
After considering the bank's reply to the  notice, additional submissions and oral submissions made by it during the  personal hearing, RBI came to the conclusion that the charge of non-compliance  with the aforesaid RBI directions was substantiated and warranted imposition of  monetary penalty on the bank.
(Yogesh Dayal)
Chief General Manager
Press Release: 2023-2024/1867
Top
© Reserve Bank of India. All Rights Reserved.
Best viewed in 1024x768 resolution in IE 5 and above.