--- Page 1 ---
MOST IMPORTANT TERMS AND CONDITIONS (MITC) - PERSONAL LOAN
Purpose of Loan:
Personal Loan ("Loan") can be granted for personal needs except for prohibited purposes like speculative
activities. It can be granted to salaried persons and professionals on fulfillment of eligibility parameters.
Rate of Interest (ROI):
The ROI stays fixed throughout the tenure of the Loan. Interest on the Personal Loan will be charged amount
in EMI (Equated Monthly Installment) at the rate as set out in the sanction letter and loan agreement.
Repayment:
Loan shall be repaid by way of Equated Monthly Installments (EMI) over the tenure of the Loan. The Repayment
of the Loan shall commence from the date specified by the Bank at the time of disbursement.
Modes of Repayment: Repayment can be made by way of ECS or Standing Instruction (in case Customer has a
Bank Account with Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited) or any other mode acceptable to the bank.
The payment options will be subject to the terms and conditions of banking services and facilities. Depending
on the payment options available, the Customer shall take necessary measures to ensure that payments are
credited on or before the due date.
Loan Tenure:
Minimum tenure is 1 year and maximum is 6 years. This is subject to change basis changes in bank’s credit policy.
Drawdown:
The Personal Loan amount should be availed within 30 days from the date of the sanction of the Personal loan.
The Bank may cancel the drawdown of the loan at any point of time, at its sole discretion.
Security:
The Loan is unsecured in nature.
This is a Public document.

--- Page 2 ---
Schedule of Charges:
S.N. Item Particulars
1 Interest Rate (fixed) Starting from 10.99% p.a.
Loan Processing Fee (Non- Up to 5% of the final loan amount plus taxes. Will be
2
refundable) deducted from the loan amount at the time of disbursal
3 Stamp Duty charges Applicable as per the respective State's Stamp Act
Amounts standing unpaid on respective due dates shall attract
4 Penal charges on Overdue EMI penal charge at 8% per annum (to be charged for actual no. of
days) on overdue amount plus applicable taxes.
5 EMI dishonour/ Bounce charges INR 750/- plus taxes per instance
Swap Charges (Change in
6 repayment mode or repayment INR 500/- plus taxes per instance
instrument or EMI date)
7 Lock-in period No lock-in period post payment of first EMI
Up to 3 years : 4% + taxes on outstanding principal
8 Foreclosure charges
After 3 years : 2% + taxes on outstanding principal
For loans disbursed on or before 1st February 2020: Part Pre
payment is not allowed.
For loans disbursed after 1st February 2020 : Post completion
9 Part pre-payment charges
of 12 months - Part-Prepayment is allowed up to 20% of
Principal loan outstanding. It is allowed once a year. Charge per
instance of part payment is INR 500 plus taxes
Physical SOA / Amortization Once in a year - No charge
10
Schedule Post that - INR 200 plus taxes per request
11 Legal charges At actuals
Disclaimer: The above charges are indicative and subject to change basis agreement between bank and the borrower. The
fees and charges are subject to revision by Kotak Mahindra Bank from time to time. If there are any changes in the fees
and charges structure, the same will be updated on the Bank’s website.
Note:
 Any other product-specific charges shall be informed separately prior to availing of the Loan. Charges for
other Services would be specified as applicable.
 Taxes / other statutory levies may be charged if applicable as per Government / RBI directives.
 The Bank reserves the right to alter any charges or fees from time to time or to introduce any new charges
or fees, as it may deem appropriate by giving prior notice as prescribed by RBI and/or as published on the
Bank’s website-www.kotak.com
This is a Public document.

--- Page 3 ---
Default:
In case the Amount Due is not paid by the Due Date, the Bank will inform the Customer for payment of the
Loan Outstanding by E-mail or SMS or Phone or through Third Parties appointed for collection purposes to
remind, follow-up and collect Dues. This will be done on best effort basis depending on customer’s availability
and contactability. Any Third Party so appointed, shall adhere to the Indian Banks Association's (IBA) Code of
Conduct on Debt Collection.
In case any amount due is not paid by the due date, the same will constitute an Event of Default and the Bank
will be entitled to call upon the customer to recover the dues or take such other action which the Bank may be
entitled to take in terms of the loan documents.
Customer Service:
For any queries or clarification, Please call our Customer Contact Centre on 1860 266 2666 (local call rates
apply) between 9:00am to 7:00pm from Monday to Saturday, excluding holidays. Also, you can visit our
website, www.kotak.com for more details.
Disclaimer:
Credit is at the sole discretion of Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited and is subject to Collection and Verification of
Documents and other Information, Credit Bureau Checks, Personal Discussion (PD), and other Checks as may be
felt necessary by the Bank. The Final Offering may be different from any initially communicated offer. The Bank
may make available any information in the Application Form and other Documents submitted to the Bank and
information pertaining to the Loan to any institution or body. Bank shall be in no way responsible for non-receipt
of intimations/communications to the previously registered Addresses, Phone Numbers, Mobile Numbers,
E-mail ID, etc. The MITC are only indicative and not exhaustive. For detailed terms and conditions of the loan,
please refer to the Loan Agreement. In case of contradiction in the MITC and provisions of the Loan Agreement,
provisions contained in the Loan Agreement shall prevail.
This is a Public document.