--- Page 1 ---
Axis Bank Personal Loans Terms and Conditions
I/we hereby agree that based on the Borrower's Request, Representations, Warranties, Covenants and
Undertakings as contained herein and in the application for Personal Loan and other documents executed or
tendered by the Borrower in relation to the Personal Loan, the bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower and the
Borrower agrees to borrow from the Bank, the Personal Loan on the terms and conditions as fully contained in
this Agreement and the key fact sheet.
The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower as lender and borrower shall commence from the date of
this signing of Agreement via electronic signature/other digital media and subsist until all monies due and
payable by the Borrower to the Bank under this Agreement and in all other documents pursuant hereto shall
have been fully paid to and received by the Bank.
I/we hereby agree that the Personal Loan shall bear Service Charges and any other fees as mentioned in the key
fact sheet, which the Borrower agrees to reimburse to the Bank separately. The Bank shall be entitled to recover
from the Borrower Foreclosure Charges at the rate mentioned in the key fact sheet on the amount of Personal
Loan, repaid by the Borrower ahead of the Repayment Terms as mentioned in the key fact sheet. The Bank
shall also be entitled to recover from the Borrower any other charges or costs incurred or claims suffered by the
Bank in connection with the Personal Loan, including on account of execution and stamping of this Agreement
and any other documentation or security creation pursuant to this Agreement.
I/we hereby understand that the Bank shall, unless agreed between the Borrower and the Bank otherwise and as
stated in the key fact sheet, disburse the Personal Loan through IMPS/NEFT/RTGS direct credit to bank
account or banker's Payment Order or a Demand Draft crossed as 'A/c Payee only'
• in the name of the previous financier towards the repayment of the previous loan to be taken over by
utilising the Personal Loan
• in the name of such party/ies as per the instructions of the borrower.
• in the name of the borrower at discretion of Bank.
The Bank shall have an unconditional right to cancel the undrawn/unavailed/unused portion of the Loan at any
time during the subsistence of the Loan, without any prior notice to the borrower, for any reason whatsoever. In
the event of any such cancellation, all the provisions of this Agreement and all other related documents shall
continue to be effective and valid and the Borrower shall repay the outstanding dues under the loan duly and
punctually as provided herein.
I/we, the borrower hereby understand and agree that the charges in relation to the disbursement (including
charges for issuance or for the collection of proceeds by the beneficiary on such payment order or demand
draft) shall be borne by the Borrower. The Bank may not disburse at any time, any amount under the Personal
Loan unless all the conditions and any other formalities prescribed by the Bank including the following, but not
restricted to, are complied with, in the sole discretion of the Bank:
• The Borrower's submission to the satisfaction of the Bank of a Certificate of Employment from his/her
Employer and his/her financial statements;

--- Page 2 ---
• The Borrower's submission to the Bank, Electronic Clearing Service mandate/Standing Instruction
mandate/NACH mandate towards repayment instalments; and Any other document or writing as the
Bank may require in its sole discretion.
• Submission of all the necessary approvals and permission from, the appropriate authorities including,
but not limited to approvals and certificates from corporations.
I/we, the Borrower, hereby undertake to repay to the Bank the amount equated in terms of monthly instalments
each by the first day of each calendar month or such part thereof as shall remain due and owing to the Bank.
The equated monthly instalment includes interest component.
Interest on the amount of the Loan is to be applied at the fixed rate of interest stipulated in the Schedule to the
Loan Agreement. The rate of interest will be fixed for the entire tenor of the loan. The rate of interest once
accepted on digital platform will not undergo change throughout the tenure of the loan.
APR : 'Annual percentage rate' is a method to compute annualised credit cost, which includes interest rate and
loan origination charges.
Cooling off/look-up period is the period during which borrower shall not be charged any foreclosure charges on
prepayment/cancellation of the loan.a. NIL foreclosure Charges– If the loan is cancelled within the free look-
up/cooling off period (i.e. 0-3 days from the date of disbursement). However, Interest till the date of
cancellation, Processing Fee, Stamp duty, other statutory charges (if applicable as and when) and GST would
not be waived/refunded in case of loan cancellation.b. If the loan is cancelled after the cooling off period, it will
be considered as foreclosure and prevailing foreclosure charges will be applicable.
I/we, understand that the Interest on the Personal loan shall accrue from the date on which the loan account is
opened for disbursal and accordingly the computation of the first EMI shall be calculated only for the actual
number of days remaining for the due date of first instalment. For rest of the instalments the entire period of 30
days based on a pre-drawn schedule shall be taken into consideration. The disbursement of the Personal loan
will be done by issuing the disbursement Pay order / Demand draft or otherwise without the Bank concerning
itself with the receipt of such disbursement by the Beneficiary / Recipient and also with the realization of such
payment order / Demand draft or the time taken in such realization. Interest on the Personal Loan shall be
computed and debited to the Personal Loan Account on the due date in each calendar month/quarter/half year
/year as stated in the key fact sheet. Interest Tax and other levies as may be applicable from time to time on the
Personal Loan shall be borne by the Borrower. The Bank shall be entitled to debit all other amounts due and
payable by the Borrower under this Agreement (including but not limited to interest tax, fees, stamp duty, costs,
service/foreclosure and other charges, claims and expenses) to the Borrower's Personal Loan account, unless
separately reimbursed to the Bank by the Borrower. Such amounts shall form part of the Personal Loan. All
amounts in default for payment (i.e. not paid by the Borrower when due to the Bank) including arrears of EMI,
interest before the commencement of EMI, costs, charges and expenses debited to the Personal Loan account
shall attract penal charges and interest and penal charges shall thereafter accrue at such revised rate(s). Interest
on the Loan shall be computed and debited to the Loan Account taking the basis of 365 days a year.
I/we, undertake that the Personal Loan (including the principal, interest thereon and any other charges,
premium, fees, taxes levies or other dues payable by the Borrower to the Bank in terms of this Agreement) be
repayable by the Borrower to the Bank

--- Page 3 ---
• at the Branch (or at any other branch of the Bank or at any other place as may be notified by the
Bank).
• by way of Equated Monthly Instalment (EMI) as mentioned in the key fact sheet towards repayment
of principal and interest; and
• by separate repayments towards repayment of penal charges, fees, charges, taxes, claims, costs and
expenses charged to the Personal Loan account.
Further the Bank shall have a lien and right of set-off on all moneys belonging to the Borrower standing to their
credit in any account whatsoever with the Bank. If upon demand by the Bank the balance outstanding in the
Credit Facility account is not repaid within the prescribed time, such credit balance in any account may be
adjusted towards dues under the Credit Facility account. In case of any deficit, the deficit amount may be
recovered by the Bank from the Borrower. I/we, further agree that the Equated Monthly Instalment (EMI)
amount shall be arrived at so as to comprise repayment of principal and payment of interest calculated on the
basis of the interest rate, periodicity, of repayment, of the entire liability under the Personal Loan at the end of
its tenor and the Borrower agrees to continue paying EMIs until all amounts due under the Personal Loan have
been repaid in full to the Bank. No notice, reminder or intimation will be given to the Borrower regarding
his/her obligation to pay the EMI regularly on each due date. It shall entirely be his/her responsibility to ensure
prompt and timely payment to the Bank. Any delay or default in payment of any EMI shall make the Borrower
liable to pay to the Bank, penal charges (for the period of such default) as mentioned in the key factsheet,
besides constituting a default thereby making all sums under this Agreement due and payable to the Bank
forthwith. All repayments of Principal and payment of interest and all other amounts by way of EMI or
otherwise shall be given effect to in the Personal Loan account in accordance with the method of effecting
payment as stated in the key fact sheet or as adopted by the Bank from time to time. Repayments ahead of the
Repayment Terms shall attract Foreclosure Charges as stated in the key fact sheet.
All amounts in default for payment, due to delay or non-payment of EMI/Instalment or interest thereon
including any costs, charges and expenses or due to occurrence of any other Event of Default as mentioned in
the above paragraph shall be debited to the loan/drawal account and in such case Bank shall also levy the penal
charges and other charges as applicable and prescribed in the schedule of charges in the said loan /drawal
account for the period of default which shall be paid by the Borrower.
However, if Borrower fails to make the payment of above said amounts in default for payment or the penal
charges and other charges levied by the Bank within 90 days from the due date of such payments, in that case
said loan/drawal account shall be classified as Non Performing Asset (NPA).
In order to regularize the said loan/drawal account, the Borrower shall be liable to pay all the above mentioned
amounts in default and/or penal charges and other charges, as the case may be, [on immediate basis]
I/we, the borrower hereby understand and agree the following:
The Bank shall, in relation to the Personal Loan:
• have the sole right at any time during the tenure of this Agreement to revise/reschedule the
repayment terms/ amount of EMI or of any other amounts outstanding there under and the Borrower

--- Page 4 ---
shall make all future repayments to the Bank according to such revised schedule on being notified by
the Bank of such revision or reschedulement;
• have the sole right to amend any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement including but not
limited to revision of interest Rate, penal charges, periodicity of compounding interest, method of
effecting credit of the repayments without assigning any reason the Borrower and the Borrower
agree that such revision shall become applicable from date of such revision in the records of the
Bank
• have the right to receive and adjust any payment/s that it may receive as an assignee of the insurance
in relation to the Property that may have been provided as security and on the life of the Borrower
towards amounts due and/or payable by the Borrower under this Agreement;
• be entitled to disclose any information about the Borrower, his/her account relationship with the
Bank and/or any default committed by him (whether such information is provided by the Borrower
or obtained by the Bank itself and whether in form of repayment conduct, rating or defaults) to its
head office, other branch offices, affiliated entities, Reserve Bank of India, any Refinancing agency,
credit rating agency and such third parties as the Bank may in its sole and exclusive discretion, deem
fit and proper. The Bank shall also be entitled to seek and receive any information as it deems fit in
connection with the Personal Loan and/or the Borrower from any third party; and
• with specific consent the borrower allows the Bank/Lender for disclosing / submitting the 'financial
information' as defined in Section 3 (13 ) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 ( 'Code' for
brief ) read with the relevant Regulations/ Rules framed under the Code, as amended and in force
from time to time and as specified there under from time to time, in respect of the Credit/ Financial
facilities availed from the Bank/ Lender, from time to time, to any 'Information Utility' ( 'IU' for
brief ) as defined in Section 3 ( 21 ) of the Code, in accordance with the relevant Regulations framed
under the Code, and directions issued by Reserve Bank of India to the banks from time to time and
hereby specifically agree to promptly authenticate the 'financial information submitted by the
Bank/Lender, as and when requested by the concerned 'IU'
• be entitled to require the Borrower, in the event of the Borrower opting to resign or retire from the
employment prior to the age of superannuation or is discharged or removed from service before such
date for any reason whatsoever, to instruct his/her employer to remit the entire dues (including
provident fund, gratuity and compensation) becoming payable by the Borrower from his/her
employer on account of his/her such cessation of employment and to receive and appropriate the
same towards the Borrower's liability under the Personal Loan.
• may obtain and share personal data of the borrowers is from/with its vendors/third party agents in
the course of processing and disbursing of the Loan. I hereby give my consent to the Bank to share
my personal information with such vendors/third party agents of the Bank as may be required.
• during the customer journey of applying for 24x7 Loans or post completion of such journey, Axis
Bank shall collect, store, utilize and analyse customer feedback for the purposes of internal product
enhancements, quality checks and marketing of retail lending products. Customer feedback shall be
collected via self-administered surveys, telephonic communication, or face to face interaction with
the customers wherein such telephonic communication and face to face interaction shall be
conducted by Axis bank itself or by third parties appointed on behalf of Axis Bank to solely collect
customer feedback. For the sake of clarity, customer feedback collected by third parties on behalf of
Axis Bank shall not be utilized by such third parties in any manner whatsoever.
I/we, the borrower, hereby agree to the following with a view to induce the Bank to grant the Personal Loan to
the borrower,

--- Page 5 ---
• Borrower has given complete and correct information and details in the application form about
himself /herself;
• Borrower shall make available to the Bank such security (including mortgage over the Property) in
such form and substance as may be required by the Bank;
• Borrower has no pending claims demands litigation or proceedings against him/her before any court
or authority (public or private);
• Borrower shall ensure that the purpose for which the Personal Loan is advanced by the Bank is
fulfilled in all respects and produced to the Bank, the necessary documents, as may be required by
the Bank;
• Borrower shall ensure proceeds will not be utilized for purchase of gold in any form including
primary gold, gold bullion, gold jewellery, gold coins, units of Gold Exchange Traded Funds (ETF)
and units of gold Mutual Funds, acquisition of/investing in Small Savings Instruments, dealing in
Virtual Currencies. Further, the borrower also agrees and confirms that the proceeds will not be
utilized for any speculative, illegal and/or anti-social purpose(s). The end use of this loan is for
personal purposes only.
• Borrower shall in addition to the income/ financial statement/s required by the Bank furnish such
other information/ documents concerning his/her employment, trade, business, profession or
otherwise as the Bank may require from time to time;
• Borrower shall promptly and without requiring any notice or reminder from the Bank, repay to the
Bank the Personal Loan in accordance with the Repayment Terms mentioned in the key fact
sheet;Borrower shall (in case of more than one borrower) be jointly and severally liable to repay the
Personal Loan, interest and all other sums due and payable under this Agreement and to observe its
terms a conditions;
• Borrower where applicable, shall inform the Bank of any likely change in his/her employment;
• Borrower shall not stand surety or guarantor for any third party liability or obligation;
• Borrower being a resident in India, shall not leave India for employment or business or long stay
without first fully repaying the Personal Loan then outstanding due and payable with interest and
other dues, including foreclosure charges, if any;
• Borrower shall keep himself/herself aware of the rules of the Bank, pertaining to Personal Loan, and
in force from time to time.
• The borrower shall, in case the borrower is a company/firm/body corporate, notify the Bank at least
30 days in advance of any intended a) change in business, constitution or constitution documents or
b) closure of its business or c) change in address.
• In the event of savings account/s of the Borrower/s being closed or being shifted from Axis Bank to
any other Bank, the Borrower/s shall within 15 days of such closure or shifting of account, arrange
to the satisfaction of Axis Bank any other alternative mode of payment of the instalments either by
way of Electronic Clearing System (ECS) or by submitting Post Dated Cheques (PDC's), failing
which the Bank would have an option to recall the outstanding loan of the Borrower/s.
• The Borrower hereby acknowledges and agrees that the Bank has a right to award a separate
mandate to its Auditor or any independent Auditor, as the Bank may deem fit with a view to obtain a
specific certificate regarding diversion /siphoning of funds by the Borrower. The Borrower agrees
and undertakes to co-operate with such Auditors and provide the necessary information and/or
documents as may be required by such Auditors. The Borrower also agrees and undertakes to bear
all the expenditure in respect of obtaining the said Certificate and agrees to indemnify and keep the
Bank indemnified in this regard.

--- Page 6 ---
I understand that the Bank may by a written notice to the Borrower, declare all sums outstanding under the
Personal Loan (including the principal, interest, charges, expenses) to become due and payable forthwith and
enforce the security (if applicable) in relation to the Personal Loan upon the occurrence (in the sole decision of
the Bank) of any one or more of the following:
• The Borrower fails to pay to the Bank any amount when due and payable under this Agreement.
• The Borrower fails to pay to any person other than the Bank any amount when due and payable or
any person other than the Bank demands repayment of the loan or dues or liability of the Borrower
to such person ahead of its repayment terms as previously agreed between such person and the
Borrower;
• The Borrower defaults in performing any of his/her obligations under this Agreement or breaches
any of the terms or conditions of this Agreement;
• The Borrower opts to resign or retires from the employment prior to the age of superannuation or is
discharged or removed from service before such date for any reason whatsoever
• Any of the information provided by the Borrower to avail the Personal Loan or any of his/her
Representations, Warranties herein being found to be or becoming incorrect or untrue;
• Any person other than the Bank commencing proceedings to declare the Borrower insolvent or if
the Borrower shall become bankrupt or insolvent or commit act of insolvency;
• The value of the security (including guarantee/s) created or tendered by the Borrower, in the sole
discretion and decision of the Bank, depreciates entitling the Bank to call for further security and
the Borrower fails to give additional security;
• The Borrower covenants and agrees that, so long as the Loan Obligations are outstanding, and until
the full and final payment of all Loan Obligations to the satisfaction of the Bank, the Borrower
shall cooperate with such auditors as may be appointed by the Bank in case the Facilities or the
loan account of the Borrower is red-flagged by the Bank and/or any other lenders. The Borrower
further covenants and agrees to provide the necessary information and/or documents as may be
required by such auditors, and bear all the expenditure in respect of the same and agrees to
indemnify and keep the Bank indemnified in this regard;
I/we, understand that the Bank shall have a right to sell or transfer (by way of assignment, securitisation or
otherwise) whole or part of the Credit/Loan Facility and outstanding amounts under the Credit/Loan Facility or
any other rights and obligations of the Bank under this Agreement or any other document pursuant hereto to any
person/ entity in a manner or under or under such terms and conditions as the Bank may decide in its sole
discretion without reference to or intimation to me/us. The Borrower expressly agree, in the event of sale or
transfer as aforesaid, to accept such person to whom the Credit/Loan Facility is sold or transferred as his lender
and make the repayment of the Credit/Loan Facility to such person as may be directed by the Bank. The
Borrower shall not be entitled to directly or indirectly assign any or all of its rights or obligations under this
Agreement in part or in whole to any person. The rights, powers and remedies available to the Bank under Law
and under these present, shall be exercised by the Bank through any of its employees or agent and the Bank
may delegate any or all of the said powers and authorities to such employee or agent.
I/we, further undertake the followings:

--- Page 7 ---
• If at any time the Bank is of the opinion that the value of the said security/ guarantee prescribed/
provided for the Personal loan is not adequate or sufficient for the purpose of securing the due
repayment of the loan, and monies due thereon, the Bank shall be entitled to call for any additional
security by notice in writing and the Borrower shall be bound to comply with the said notice and
provide any additional security satisfactory to the Bank within 30 days from the receipt of the letter.
The Borrower confirms the accuracy of the information given in the loan application and further
confirms that no material change or alteration has taken place subsequent to the date of application
which would impact adversely the safety of amount granted by the Bank in any manner whatsoever.
• The Borrower declares and confirms that he/she is not a party to any litigation of any material
character affecting the security and Borrower is not aware of any facts likely to give rise to such
litigation or any material claims or enquiries from any tax authorities or other statutory authorities.
• All or any other conditions as specified in the most important information shall form an integral part
of this Agreement and the most important information shall always be used in conjunction with this
agreement at all times. Interest on the amount of the loan will be applied at the rate specified in the
key fact sheet herein separately agreed.
• All loans are at the sole discretion of Axis Bank and are subject to adherence of Terms and
Conditions stipulated by the Bank and guided by Statutory and Regulatory directives from time to
time. Axis Bank would have sole discretion on approval or disallowance of facilities, drawings
beyond the sanctioned limits and disallowing drawing on a borrowal account on its asset
classification or on account of any noncompliance with the terms of sanction. Axis Bank does not
have an obligation to meet further requirements of the borrowers on account of growth in business
etc. without proper review of credit limits.
• All disputes, differences and / or claim or questions arising out of these presents or in any way
touching or concerning the same or as to constructions, meaning or effect thereof or as to the right,
obligations and liabilities of the parties hereunder shall be referred to and settled by arbitration, to be
held in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 including
related rules and regulations and any other statutory amendments thereof, of a sole arbitrator to be
nominated by the Lender/Bank, and in the event of death, unwillingness, refusal, neglect, inability or
incapability of a person so appointed to act as an arbitrator, the Lender/Bank may appoint a new
arbitrator to be a sole arbitrator. The arbitrator shall not be required to give any reasons for the
award and the award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties concerned. The seat
and venue of arbitration proceedings shall be at Chennai. The arbitral procedure shall be conducted
in English.
• The Fair Practice Code for the Lenders as published on the Axis Bank's website, shall apply to the
Loan. Copy of the Fair Practice Code for lenders as available on the Bank's website.
Fair-practice-code for-lenders
Applicable in cases where borrower is maintaining savings a/c with Axis Bank
Without prejudice to any other term of this Agreement, I expressly agree that any payment made by the
Borrower to the Bank under this Agreement shall be appropriated by the Bank in the following order.
• costs, charges and expenses that the Bank may expend to service, enforce and maintain the security
and therefore recover the Personal Loan, interest and all sums due and payable by the Borrower to
the Bank under this Agreement.
• penal charges on amounts in default and loss of profit on the defaulted amount/s

--- Page 8 ---
• foreclosure charges
• interest
• principal amount of the Personal Loan
I/we, agree that any delay or omission by the Bank in exercising any of its rights, powers or remedies as the
lender of the loan under this Agreement and other documents pursuant hereto shall not impair the right, power
or remedy or be construed as its waiver or acquiesce by the Bank. I/we, confirm that this Agreement and its
Schedules and any other documentation pursuant to it represent one single agreement between the Parties.
Laws of India shall govern this Agreement, the security and other documentation pursuant hereto and Courts at
Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India shall have exclusive jurisdiction over all aspects governing the interpretation and
enforcement of this Agreement, the security and other documentation pursuant hereto.
The addresses of the Borrower and the Bank shall be as mentioned in the key fact sheet. The Borrower shall
forthwith inform the Bank of any change in his/her Address (current residence and office). Any notice or
request required or permitted under this Agreement to be given by either party to the other shall be only in
writing and sent on the address of the other Party as mentioned in the key fact sheet (or in case to the Borrower,
on the address of the Borrower last known to the Bank):
• If given by the Bank, may be given by personal delivery, fax or by post and shall be deemed
to have been served upon or received by the Borrower, if given by personal delivery, when
so delivered and if by post on expiration of 3 days after the same has been delivered to the
post office for onward transmission to the Borrower under certificate of posting; and
• If given by the Borrower to the Bank when it is actually received by the Bank.
Borrower(s) agree(s) to keep bank account (details of which the Borrower(s) has/have submitted to the Bank for
setting up the Standing Instruction/NACH Mandate to recover the EMI/Instalment) adequately funded at least
one day prior to the repayment/EMI due date. Borrower(s) understand(s) and agree(s) that if the Borrower(s)
fail(s) to fund the bank account as aforesaid and the Standing Instruction/NACH Mandate fails to be honoured
on the repayment/EMI due date, Bank shall be at liberty to levy applicable charges as per the Loan Agreement
in addition to the other rights available to the Bank under this Loan Agreement and applicable law/regulatory
guidelines.
RBI vide its guidelines (reference no. RBI/2021-2022/125 DOR.STR.REC.68/21.04.048/2021-22) on
‘Prudential Norms on Income Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning, pertaining to Advances –
Clarifications’ dated 12-11-2021 has clarified and/or harmonized certain aspects of the extant Regulatory
guidelines. The Borrower agrees, undertakes and confirms that the Bank has brought the following
clarifications to the notice of the Borrower and the Borrower confirms of having been apprised of as follows:
Bank will deduct my/our EMI and other repayment/charges in terms of my Term Loan account on 5th or 10th
of every month as per loan account opening date as mentioned in the Schedule of Charges. I understand that if I
do not pay my EMI on the above-mentioned date, my account will be considered as ‘Overdue’ from the end of
that date. My frequency of repayment shall be at monthly rests.

--- Page 9 ---
Classification as Special Mention Account (SMA) and NonPerforming Asset (NPA)
• Dues: shall mean the principal / interest / any charges levied on the loan account which are payable
within the period stipulated as per the terms of sanction of the credit facility.
• Overdue:. shall mean the principal / interest / any charges levied on the loan account which are
payable but have not been paid within the period stipulated as per the terms of sanction of the credit
facility. In other words, any amount due to the bank under any credit facility is 'overdue' if it is not
paid by the due date fixed by the bank.
• Relevance of the principle of 'First In First Out' (FIFO) in appropriation of payments into the
Borrower’s account: The principle of FIFO i.e. 'First In, First Out' accounting method is relevant to
arrive at the number of days overdue for determining the SMA/NPA status. The FIFO principle
assumes that the oldest outstanding dues in the loan account needs to be cleared first. The FIFO
method thus requires that what is due first must be paid by the Borrower first. For example, if in any
loan account as on 01-02-2021, there are no overdue and an amount of INR X is due for payment
towards principal instalment / interest / charges, any payment being credited on or after 01-02-2021
in the loan account will be used to pay off the dues outstanding on 01-02- 2021. Assuming that
nothing is paid / or there is partial payment (INR Y) of dues during the month of February, the
overdue as on 0103-2021 will be INR X - INR Y.Additionally, an amount of INR Z becomes due as
on 01-03-2021. Now any payment partial payment into the account on or after 01-03-2021 will be
first utilized to pay off the partial due of 01-02-2021 (INR X - INR Y). If there is more recovery
than the INR X - INR Y, then after recovering dues of 01-02-2021, the remaining amount will be
treated as recovery towards due of 01-03-2021.
• Age of oldest dues: The age of oldest dues is reckoned in days from the date on which the oldest
payment is due and continues to remain unpaid. In the aforesaid illustration, if the dues relating to
0102-2021 remain unpaid till 01-03-2021, the age of the oldest dues is reckoned as 29 days on 02-
032021.
Lending institutions will recognize the incipient stress in loan accounts, immediately on default, by classifying
them as Special Mention Accounts (SMA). The basis of classification of SMA / NPA category shall be as
follows:
Loans other than revolving facilities Loans in the nature of cash credit/overdraft
Basis for classification â Basis for classification â Outstanding
SMA Sub Principal or interest payment or SMA balance remains continuously in excess of
categories any other amount wholly or Subcategories the sanctioned limit or drawing power,
partly overdue whichever is lower, for a period of:
SMA 0 Up to 30 days NA NA
More than 30 days and Up to 60
SMA 1 SMA 1 More than 30 days and Up to 60 days
days
More than 60 days and Up to 90
SMA 2 SMA 2 More than 60 days and Up to 90 days
days
Non-performing Asset: Non-Performing Asset (NPA) is a loan or an advance where:

--- Page 10 ---
• Interest and/or installment of principal remains overdue for a period of more than 90 days in respect
of a term loan,
• The account remains 'out of order' as indicated below, in respect of an Overdraft / Cash Credit (OD /
CC),
• The bill remains overdue for a period of more than 90 days in the case of bills purchased and
discounted,
• The installment of principal or interest thereon remains overdue for two crop seasons for short
duration crops
• The amount of liquidity facility remains outstanding for more than 90 days, in respect of a
securitisation transaction undertaken in terms of the Reserve Bank of India (Securitisation of
Standard Assets) Directions, 2021.
• in respect of derivative transactions, the overdue receivables representing positive mark-to market
value of a derivative contract, if these remain unpaid for a period of 90 days from the specified due
date for payment.
Out of Order Status: An account shall be treated as 'out of order' if:
• The outstanding balance in the CC/OD account remains continuously in excess of the sanctioned
limit/drawing power for 90 days, or
• The outstanding balance in the CC/OD account is less than the sanctioned limit/drawing power but
there are no credits continuously for 90 days, or the outstanding balance in the CC/OD account is
less than the sanctioned limit/drawing power but credits are not enough to cover the interest debited
during the previous 90 days period.
Age of
SMA since
Due date Payment oldest SMA /NPA NPA
Payment covers date / SMA NPA Date
of payment date dues in categorisation categorization
class date
days
Entire dues upto
01.01.2022 01.01.2022 0 NIL NA NA NA
01.01.2022
No Payment or
01.01.2022 01.01.2022 Partly paid dues 1 SMA-0 01.02.2022 NA NA
of 01.02.2022
No Payment or
01.02.2022 02.02.2022 Partly paid dues 2 SMA-0 01.02.2022 NA NA
of 01.02.2022
Dues of
01.02.2022 not
fully paid
01.03.2022 29 SMA-0 01.02.2022 NA NA
01.03.2022 is also
due at EOD
01.03.2022

--- Page 11 ---
Age of
SMA since
Due date Payment oldest SMA /NPA NPA
Payment covers date / SMA NPA Date
of payment date dues in categorisation categorization
class date
days
Dues of
01.02.2022 fully
paid, Due for
1 SMA-0 01.03.2022 NA NA
01.03.2022 is not
paid at EOD
01.03.2022
No payment of
full dues of
01.02.2022 /
01.02.2022 and 31 SMA-1 NA NA
03.03.2022
01.03.2022 at
EOD 03.03.2022
Dues of
01.02.2022 fully
paid, due for
1 SMA-0 01.03.2022 NA NA
01.03.2022 not
fully paid at EOD
01.03.2022
No payment of
dues of
01.02.2022,
01.02.2022 /
01.04.2022 01.03.2022 and 60 SMA-1 NA NA
02.04.2022
amount dues on
01.04.2022 at
EOD 01.04.2022
No payment of
dues of
01.02.2022 /
01.02.2022 till 61 SMA-2 NA NA
02.04.2022
01.04.2022 at
EOD 02.04.2022
No payment of
dues of
01.02.2022 /
01.05.2022 01.02.2022 till 90 SMA-2 NA NA
02.04.2022
01.05.2022 at
EOD 01.05.2022
No payment of
dues of
01.05.2022 01.02.2022 till 91 NPA NA NA 02.05.2022
01.05.2022 at
EOD 02.05.2022

--- Page 12 ---
Age of
SMA since
Due date Payment oldest SMA /NPA NPA
Payment covers date / SMA NPA Date
of payment date dues in categorisation categorization
class date
days
Fully paid dues of
01.06.2022 01.06.2022 01.02.2022 at 93 NPA NA NPA 02.05.2022
EOD 01.06.2022
Paid entire dues
of 01.03.2022 &
01.07.2022 01.07.2022 62 NPA NA NPA 02.05.2022
01.04.2022 at
EOD 01.07.2022
Paid entire dues
of 01.05.2022 &
01.08.2022 01.08.2022 32 NPA NA NPA 02.05.2022
01.06.2022 at
EOD 01.08.2022
Paid entire dues
of 01.07.2022 &
01.09.2022 01.09.2022 1 NPA NA NPA 02.05.2022
01.08.2022 at
EOD 01.09.2022
Paid entire dues Standard
STD from
01.10.2022 01.10.2022 of 01.09.2022 & 0 Account with NA NA
01.10.2022
01.10.2022 No Overdues
The Borrower agrees and acknowledges that the manner of classification and illustrations of SMA and NPA as
provided in sub-clauses (a) to (d) above in which the Bank is required to classify accounts as SMA / NPA as per
the various applicable regulations and guidelines issued by RBI from time to time and:
• the same is liable to change/be modified as per the requirements of the RBI guidelines in the matter
issued from time to time. Any such change shall be intimated by the Bank to the Borrower from time to
time and the Borrower agrees and acknowledges that such intimation shall accordingly modify the
manner and illustrations provided herein without a need for further amendment to the Agreement or
require specific acknowledgment of the Borrower; and
• the Bank shall have the right to classify the account of the Borrower with the Bank as SMA / NPA as
per the applicable regulations/guidelines issued by RBI from time to time even though the manner of
classification and the illustrations thereof are not set forth in this Agreement or the Sanction Letter(s).
Please refer to the link for Axis Privacy Policy
https://www.axisbank.com/online-privacy-policy#menuTab