--- Page 1 ---
Four major factors that impact your CIBIL Score:
PAYMENT HISTORY: Your payment history is one of the factors that lenders consider when determining your creditworthiness.
It shows how consistently you have made your payments on time and in full. Late payments, missed payments and
delinquencies can negatively impact your CIBIL Score.
CREDIT UTILISATION: Credit utilisation refers to the amount of available credit you're using. Higher credit utilisation suggests
you may be over-extended, making you appear to be at credit risk to the lenders. Aim to keep your credit utilisation ratio well
within your available credit limit.
AGE OF CREDIT: The length of time you've held credit accounts (i.e. loan account, credit card etc.). It shows lenders that you have
a track record of managing credit responsibly over time. A longer credit history is typically seen as a sign of stability
and reliability.
CREDIT ENQUIRIES: When you apply for new credit, lenders will often check your credit report to assess & onboard customers
with a proven track record of making timely payments. This can have a marginal impact on your CIBIL Score. Applying for credit,
too frequently in a short period of time can therefore negatively impact your CIBIL Score.
It is important to note that while these credit scores are not viewed negatively by banks & financial institutions, some lenders' credit policy
prevents them from providing loans to an applicant with credit scores of 'NA' or 'NH' (applicants with no credit track record). Hence, you
may have a better chance of applying for a loan elsewhere.

--- Page 2 ---
Your CIBIL Report is a record of your credit payment history compiled from information received from banks and financial institutions.
The purpose is to help loan providers make informed decisions basis your credit history, quickly and objectively. A healthy credit report can
get your loan approved faster and often, at better terms.
CIBIL Score & Report Control Number : 1,000,401,384
(e) Indicates the value provided by bank when you applied for a credit facility. CIBIL Score
An overview of your C cr I e B dit I p L ro S file c . ore & Report (e)Indicatesthevalue provided by bankwhen C y o o n u t r a oP p l p rN l i i un e m d t f bY o eo r r u a : 1r c , 0 r C e 0 d I0 i B t ,4 f I0 a L1 c , i 3R li 8 t e y 4p . ort This section reflects your CIBIL Score which is
An overviewofyour credit profile. PrintYour CIBILReport
widely used by loan providers to evaluate loan
applications. An individual's CIBIL Score ranges
between 300-900 and is calculated basis the
This section reflectsyourCIBIL Score,which is Please note in some casesyou might be displayed
widely used by loan providersto evaluate loan a CIBIL Score of “NH”which indicates one of the information in the “Accounts” and “Enquiry”
applications.Your score ranges between 300 and following 3things:
900, and is calculated based onthe information section of the credit report. The closer the score
available inthe “Accounts” and “Enquiry” section 1.You have a credit card or loan account, but no
ofyourCIBILReport.The closeryour score isto credit activity inthe lastthreeyears. to 900 the more confidence the loan provider
900,the more confidencethe lenderwill have in 2. Lenders may have made enquiries, butyou do
your abilityto repaythe loan, Higher your score, not have any credit activity. will have in your ability to repay the loan and
the better chances ofyour application getting 3.You only have add-on credit cards, and no credit
approved. exposure. hence, the better chances of your application
getting approved.
Account Information
The most important segment of your CIBIL
Report, it contains details of all your loan and
credit card accounts. It displays the name of the
lender/s, the type of credit facilities (home loan,
auto loan, credit card etc.), the account
numbers, whether single or jointly held, when
each account was opened, date of the last
payment, loan amount, current balance, amount
overdue (if any) and most importantly, a month
on month record of up to 36 months of your
payments.
A yellow box above the Account Details
indicates that the section in under dispute will
be removed when the dispute is closed.
However, upon closure, the disputed
information may or may not be changed as per
confirmation received from the lender.
Profile Information
This section contains your personal details like
Name, Date of Birth and Gender as reported to
CIBIL by various members, Identification type
section contains details like your Income Tax ID
(PAN), Passport Number, Driver's License and
Voter ID information reported by lenders.The
address category also explains whether the
address is a residential address, official address,
permanent address or temporary address. Up to 4
addresses and email addresses are provided in
this section.

--- Page 3 ---
Contact Details
Your addresses, telephone, mobile numbers and
email addresses as reported by lenders appear
here.
Employment Details
This section provides information on your
occupation and income (at the time of opening
a credit facility) as reported by the lender for a
particular credit account.
Enquiry Information
This section provides details of all the enquiries
made by the lender for your various credit
applications and includes name of the lender,
date of the application, the type of loan and its
size.

--- Page 4 ---
